1 HOME


5 REGISTER TO BE A DONAR

COUNTRY
NAME
DOB
GENDER
BLOOD GROUP
ORGANS THAT I WISH TO DONATE
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE
EMAIL
MOBILE

EMERGENCY CONTACT NAME
RELATIONSHIP
EMERGENCY CONTACT NUMBER

2 FAQ

WHAT

Vital Organs like heart, liver, kidneys, intestines, lungs, and pancreas can be donated only in case of ‘brain death’. However other tissues like corneas, heart valves, skin, bones etc can be donated only in case of natural death.

WHY

Each year, thousands of people die while waiting for a transplant, because no suitable donor can be found for them. The need for organ donors has never been greater.

Did you know In India every year nearly:

500,000 people die because of non-availability of organs
200,000people die of liver disease
50,000 people die from heart disease
150,000 people await a kidney transplant but only 5,000 get one
1,000,000 lakh people suffer from corneal blindness and await transplant
Nationally, with a population of 1.2 Billion people, the statistic stands at 0.08 Persons as organ donors per million population (PMP). This is an incredibly small and insignificant number compared to the statistics around the world.

Countries like USA, UK, Germany, Netherlands have a 'family consent' system for donations where people sign up as donors, and their family's consent is required. (These countries have seen the donations double Per Million Population averaging between 10-30 PMP). Other countries like Singapore, Belgium, Spain have a more aggressive approach of 'presumed consent', which permits organ donation by default unless the donor has explicitly opposed it during his lifetime. These countries have seen the donations double Per Million Population (PMP), averaging between 20-40 PMP.

At present, most organs for transplants come from living donors; legally these donors can only be the immediate family. As a result, only a small percentage of organ seekers are able to find compatible and keen donors. An alternative is deceased donation where organs are retrieved from a person declared brain dead. Due to the extremely low number of deceased donations, most people awaiting transplant breathe their last.

According to Sri Ramachandra Research Medical College & Research Center, at any given time there are 8 to 10 brain dead patients in different ICU's in any major city of the country. There is hence potentially a huge pool of brain death donors available in India. If these families are made aware and donate the organs of their loved ones this could potentially impact the lives of no. of people.

We understand it is difficult to think about organ donation when you have just lost a loved one; however organ donation is a generous and worthwhile decision that can save many lives.By donating, each person can save the lives of 7 individuals by way of organ donation and enhance the lives of over 50 people by way of tissue donation.



HOW


On successful registration, you will receive a donor card from one of our NGO partners.

Your decision to become an organ donor is a very private and personal one. To help you with your decision, there are three critical steps to follow:

Step 1. Learning:

Read and learn as much as you can about organ and tissue donation. There are a lot of myths surrounding organ donation, most which are due to ignorance. Refer to our Myths vs. Realities section to clarify them.

Step 2. Discuss with family & Decide:

It is important to discuss your decision with family or next of kin. This is because in case of an emergency or an untoward incident, your family will be the first to be contacted. Only after seeking their permission can the doctors go ahead with retrieving your organs. If your family is aware of your decision, your wishes will be carried out the way you would have liked.

In scenarios where the families are not aware and need to be counseled on the wishes of their deceased relative, a lot of precious time is lost and sometimes the opportunity to donate is gone. In Organ donation, time is of prime importance. It is essential for the organs or tissues to be removed as soon as possible after the event of death, else they become unusable. This is why we urge you to please discuss this decision with your family.

If you are less than 18 years old,then your parents’ consent is required for organ donation. So if you want to become a donor, it’s important to tell them that you wish to donate. Children too are in need of organ transplants, and they usually need organs smaller than those an adult can provide.

Step 3: Take Action:

If you’ve decided that you want to donate your organs after death, it is important that you register your decision by signing upfor Organ Donation. Fill the online form by clicking on the link below and submit. On successful registration, you will receive a donor card from one of our NGO partners with 10 days. Remember to carry your donor card along with you at all times.

In case you wish to change your decision and withdraw your consent to be an organ donor, just tear the donor card and deregister yourself. Also, inform your family that you no longer wish to be an organ donor.



WHEN

When can organs be donated?
Vital Organs like heart, liver, kidneys, intestines, lungs, and pancreas can be donated only in case of ‘brain death’. However other tissues like corneas, heart valves, skin, bones etc. can be donated only in case of natural death.

What is brain death?
Brain death results from a severe, irreversible injury to the brain. All areas of brain are damaged and no longer function due to which a person cannot sustain his/her own life, but vital body functions may be maintained by an artificial support system. This maintains circulation to vital organs long enough to facilitate organ donation. People who experience brain death also donate tissues.


3 ORGANS

What Organs Can Be Donated

Corneas
Kidneys
Heart
Lungs
Liver
Pancreas
